[dip-196] Initial onchain network identity DIP draft (#200)
diem/dip: dips/dip-196.md

---
dip: 196
title: Onchain Network Identity
authors: Greg Nazario (@gregnazario)
status: Draft
type: Informational
created: 07/06/2021
last_updated: 07/06/2021
issue: https://github.com/diem/dip/issues/196
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Summary

> Diem nodes need the ability to find other nodes in the network easily.  Additionally, the nodes need the ability to find 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dip-6 defines a method for downstream nodes to learn about validator full nodes and gain access to the Diem network.  In turn, validator full nodes would benefit by being able to distinguish known nodes from unknown.
```

Reviewer: I don't really buy the value immediately from being able to discover other nodes other than VFNs.

> the associated network identity so that the nodes can trust them.  This DIP describes the ability for node owners to

Reviewer 2: Is node owner a formal term?  E.g. in DIP-6 Validator Owner?  If so we should still to the terminology or if generic, perhaps node operator might be a more appropriate.

Author: Yeah, can change to `node operator`, the differences between `owner` and `operator` are blurred then at the full node usage.

> self register their network identity onchain, and allow other nodes to lookup this data for discovery of other nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
self register their network identity on-chain, and allow other nodes to lookup this data for discovery of other nodes.
```

Reviewer 2: Per David's comment above, the on-chain network identify seems to only be a feature for VFNs.  It might make this DIP more straightforward to focus on that aspect unless there are other concrete use cases you would like to call out.

Author: Sure, I can focus on only the VFN usecase

An example of a use case for this is partners guaranteeing access to Validator Full Nodes.  Validator full nodes can

> easily subscribe and know which nodes to prioritize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subscribe to an event stream to learn about changes and determine which nodes to prioritize.
```

Reviewer: avoid superlatives

# Specification

## Onchain Network Identity Format

The identities shall be a vector of bcs encoded `NetworkIdentity` objects.  However, the vector shall be a set, and any duplicates will be ignored.
```
{
  identities: vector<vector<u8>>,
}
```

The `NetworkIdentity` struct shall be a tuple of `peer_id` and a x25519 `public_key` that represents the identity for a single node.
```
{
    peer_id: <account_address>,
    public_key: <base64 encoded x25519 public key>,
}
```

## Updating Network Identity - Owner

The `NetworkIdentity` for an account shall be updated by only the owner of the account.  At this point, the consumers of this identity must update their local use of identity within a reasonable amount of time.

## Consuming Network Identity

> Consumers of `NetworkIdentity` may keep track of a list of accounts to watch.  The consumers then can watch the event streams of each account's `NetworkIdentity` for updates and update accordingly.

Reviewer: please update and show the actual event type

# Backwards Compatibility

As this only applies to discovery of future nodes, there are no concerns for backwards compatibility.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a blurb about applications that tie back into your earlier TBF and connection limitation work?

Author: As a way to say how this works together with that work?  Or as a way to justify why VFNs need this identity?

# Copyright Notice

> This documentation is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) license (available at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Reviewer: actually I would argue the other dips screwed up :D

> This documentation is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) license (available at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Author: * Under [DIP requirements in DIP-0](https://github.com/diem/dip/blob/main/dips/dip-0.md#dip-requirements) the copyright notice is required.  It also says, it's at the bottom and well it's not :/
* This is present in a few DIPs, see [DIP-1](https://github.com/diem/dip/blob/main/dips/dip-1.mdx#copyright-notice).
* The DIP website adds the copyright notice to the bottom of every DIP, regardless of whether it has it at the bottom.  See [DIP-160 website](https://dip.diem.com/dip-160/) vs [DIP-160 git](https://github.com/diem/dip/blob/main/dips/dip-160.md)

Let's please determine what we need to fix in DIP-0 and correct this process to remove the confusion.

> This documentation is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) license (available at https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.  Let's just keep it consistent with DIP-1 and we'll work on how to revise DIP-0 or outdate it.

---
dip: 196
title: Onchain Network Identity
authors: Greg Nazario (@gregnazario)
status: Draft
type: Informational
created: 07/06/2021
last_updated: 07/06/2021
issue: https://github.com/diem/dip/issues/196
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

> # Simple Summary

Reviewer: Probably no need to have summary, abstract, and motivation, maybe just one section?

Author: We should update DIP-0 appropriately.

> This DIP describes Onchain Network, an identity for Diem nodes to easily discover and update identity of other Diem nodes on the network.  Allows for trusted connections between nodes.

Reviewer: Hmm.... This sentence seems a bit lacking:

This DIP describes Onchain Network Identities, a framework for Diem nodes to easily discover and update network credentials and permissions for other nodes on the network. Examples of such permissions include priority or privileged access for well-known participants, such as VASPs, to upstream validator fullnodes. This becomes increasingly important as a means to mitigate resource limitations of the validator fullnodes, where the validator fullnodes cannot support the demands of the entire ecosystem but can still support nodes from entities critical for network operations. While in theory this can be handled without the blockchain leveraging an identity repository and configuration file manipulation, the requirements for scaling and securing such a solution would be substantially more operational overhead and duplicate functionality already provided by the Diem blockchain.

# Abstract

Currently, network discovery is done either manually (via configuration) or by the validator set (which only applies to validators and their respective full nodes).  Adding onchain network identity allows for nodes to discover other nodes via the shared onchain resources, and allow owners of the nodes to control their identity and updates to the identity. This DIP describes a method of storing a node's `Network Identity` on-chain for use by other nodes in node discovery. A `NetworkIdentity` is a combination of a `PublicKey` and an `AccountAddress` that represents the node. An `AccountAddress` is derived from the `PublicKey` and should be unique per running node. This `NetworkIdentity` will be stored on chain per owning account e.g. a VASP.  This `NetworkIdentity` will be used by other nodes to identify other nodes to allow connections by subscribing to events for specific accounts.

# Motivation

> This method will be used first for the Association to connect their full nodes to the validator full node network, with uninterrupted access.  Other nodes may choose to use this method for discovery in the future.

Reviewer: delete

# Specification

## Onchain Network Identity Format

The identities shall be a vector of bcs encoded `NetworkIdentity` objects.  However, the vector shall be a set, and any duplicates will be ignored.
```
{
  identities: vector<vector<u8>>,
}
```

The `NetworkIdentity` struct shall be a tuple of `peer_id` and a x25519 `public_key` that represents the identity for a single node.
```
{
    peer_id: <account_address>,
    public_key: <base64 encoded x25519 public key>,
}
```

## Updating Network Identity - Owner

The `NetworkIdentity` for an account shall be updated by only the owner of the account.  At this point, the consumers of this identity must update their local use of identity within a reasonable amount of time.

## Consuming Network Identity

Consumers of `NetworkIdentity` may keep track of a list of accounts to watch.  The consumers then can watch the event streams of each account's `NetworkIdentity` for updates and update accordingly.

> A consumer may choose to subscribe to all accounts, in which it will watch the `Treasury compliance` account updates and keep track of which accounts to watch accordingly.

Reviewer: can you provide the code snippet?

Author: Currently reworking some of the technical details involving integration with move.  Can come up with examples and code snippets once that's done.

> # Rationale

Reviewer: delete?

The motivation of the `NetworkIdentity` design is to keep identity updates to be controlled by the owner of the account.  Additionally, this allows for a more distributed `NetworkIdentity` that can be used for other purposes.  An onchain list of accounts was not used, as either an offchain account list can be used, or a consumer can listen to the `Treasury compliance` account updates.

> # Backwards Compatibility

Reviewer: delete

Reviewer: why keep :P

As this only applies to discovery of future nodes, there are no concerns for backwards compatibility.

> # Implementations

Reviewer: implementation should never be in this DIP, delete this from dip0

N/A

> 

Reviewer: recommend an Examples section of how the Diem tech stack would leverage this -- e.g., event emitting, pick up identity, update networking stack... mention other enhancements that you built out to help mitigate attacks (TBF and connection limits)

Author: This isn't specified in DIP-0.  We should update the process even if it's just suggested.
